h1. Boiler

Boiler is a base "Rails 2.2":http://github.com/rails/rails/ application originally copied from Bort:http://github.com/fudgestudios/bort/tree/master.

h2. Install

* Download and unzip Boiler
* Create and edit config files database.yml, facebooker.yml, settings.yml, config/initializers/hoptoad.rb, initializers/site_keys.rb
* Changed the default password in the boiler migration
* rake db:migrate
* Say thanks to the bort guys

h2. Plugins Installed

Bort came with quite a few plugins to get you off to a strong start. Boiler has taken the majority of these plugins and added a few. The most notible change is that Boiler is set to use Facebooker for Facebook Connect (instead of OpenID Authentication), Compass CSS Framework, HAML, jRails, YUI Compressor and Hoptoad Notifier (instead of Exception Notifier).

h3. Restful Authentication

"Restful Authentication":http://github.com/technoweenie/restful-authentication/ is already setup. The routes are setup, along with the mailers and observers.
"Forgotten password":http://github.com/greenisus/forgot_password/ comes setup, so you don't have to mess around setting it up with every project.

The "AASM plugin":http://github.com/rubyist/aasm/ comes pre-installed. Restful Authentication is also setup to use user activation.

h3. User Roles

User roles are provided by "Role Requirement":http://code.google.com/p/rolerequirement/ by Tim Harper. A default admin role is predefined along with a default admin user. See the migrations for the admin login details.

h3. Facebook Connect with Facebooker

Boiler has Open ID Authentication integrated with RESTful Authentication. But we decided to go with Facebook Connect with Facebooker.

h3. Will Paginate

We use will_paginate in pretty much every project we use, so Boiler comes with it pre-installed.

h3. Rspec & Rspec-rails

You should be testing your code, so Boiler comes with Rspec and Rspec-rails already installed so you're
ready to roll.

h3. Hoptoad Notifier

You don't want your applications to crash and burn so Hoptoad Notifier is already installed to let
you know when everything goes to shit. Be sure to set your key in 'config/initializers/hoptoad.rb

h3. Asset Packager

Packages up your css/javascript so you're not sending 143 files down to the user at the same time. Reduces
load times and saves you bandwidth.

h3. Paperclip

Paperclip has been added for all your attaching needs

h2. Routes

The routes for RESful Auth and the forgot password stuff are already sorted for you.

h2. Settings YAML

There is a settings.yml file that contains site-wide stuff. The site name, url and admin email are all used
in the RESTful Auth mailers, so you don't need to worry about editing them.

h2. Database YAML

The database.yml defaults to sqlite3 but also contains the settings for MySQL in comments so you can switch
over easily.

h2. Capistrano Recipe

Boiler comes ready to rock capistrano. The recipe that is setup is based on using git and passenger. It's ready
to go with multistage deployments. It deploys to the production config by default, so if you don't need it
you can ignore it. Just update config/deploy/production.rb with your deployment settings.

More info on capistrano-ext/multistage deployments can be found here: http://weblog.jamisbuck.org/2007/7/23/capistrano-multistage

*NOTE* The is a known issue between rails 2.2.2 and capistrano-ext that will stop 'rake gems' from working properly. You can either
download the patch or wait till rails 2.2.3 comes out.

h2. Additional Rake Tasks

Boiler comes with additional rake tasks to help you get started. The Limerick Rake plugin from the crowd at "ThoughtBot:http://www.thoughtbot.com has
been included, as has ar-backup - to help you backup and move your databases.

h2. Uses the Database for Sessions

Boiler (like Bort) is setup to use the database to store sessions by default.

h2. Misc

* password and password_confirmation are set up to be filtered
* there is a default application layout file (This has been improved to be more friendly till it can be replaced)
* a page title helper has been added
* index.html is already deleted
* rails.png is already deleted
* a few changes have been made to the default views
* a default css file with blank selectors for common rails elements

h2. Credits

Bort put together by people at "Fudge":http://www.fudgestudios.com/